okay today I'm going to show you how to
change a cam sensor on a 7-3 diesel
direct injection and these had were
known for failing and then they would
lose the cam sensor signal and there's
no crank sensor on these so it lose all
base timing and it would actually shut
down the engine so you can be going over
like a bridge that's rough like that and
would lose the signal internally by the
actual wires inside of there that the
Quayle ups inside of there and it'll
drop out and then your engine will stall
I've had it happen a couple of times
before the recall came out they had I
had a few customer complaints of
intermittent die outs and you start
right back up usually and now let's take
one home one night and it died out over
the bridge so I shook the sensor enough
answer that was fun on like home so
it'll have you happen usually you know
over a bumps and little sub you start
break up the sensor internally so I'm
actually doing one today that's part of
the o7 recall on these oh seven s 57 and
I'm just going to give you my basic
demonstration of it so you can pull them
out I know a lot of 7-3 owners know
about this and they actually keep one in
the glove box back in a day when they
had the gray scent or the black sensor
now the new ones are an actual part of
the recall our gray sensor and these
ones are extremely cheap but I guess
they're working because we haven't had
any come back in two said they're still
failing and cutting out so these do work
I guess for just one in bulk because the
old ones were around eighty ninety
dollars I think these ones were like
20-some dollars retail so we're going to
go through it and the first time you got
to do is pull the pig tail off and you
just pull back on like this and it'll
pull the whole pig tail and then after
that there's a 10 millimeter bolt where
bolts into the front cover let's see
well I found a deep well 10 millimeter
and a three inch extension
creates ratchet works perfect you can
start getting that bolt out and you know
if it is season they're pretty good
shooting they aren't you'd have enough
leverage here to break the bolt on there
and break torque on and get it out and
then what I do is I use a really long
flat blade screwdriver or a pry bar like
this you get some kind of angle and you
can start working it out side to side
you don't want to just do it right in
the middle you'll break the sensor and
that's why I bust out my flat blade
screwdriver and you can start working it
side to side and getting it out of there
so this one is original it's got over
two hours from thousand on it and it's a
little hard to get it out especially
one-handed but looks like it's pretty
close right now and I should be able to
wiggle out of there by hand
there it comes once I get the old sensor
out and clean the bore in the actual
front cover we kill out dirt and garbage
out of there and make sure it's clean
smooth and I put a light coating of
grease on the actual whole ring of the
new one let me go start popping it back
in okay then going back in just push it
right back into there and I'll sit flush
and there's no alignment or not like
that make sure your bolt lines up and
you thread it in by hand and then I put
a bit of dielectric grease and the pins
here so that we can protect the pins
from corrosion since it is down here in
the elements and they need to snap your
connector back in
until it clicks you can go ahead and dry
it out okay so after that you've gotta
start out let it run for a little bit
and you'll know you got a camp signal or
not and everything's just fine no codes
and all that
make sure idle smooth and all that
as it did before the cam sensor
replacement we had a few instances where
it throw a cylinder contribution codes
for a number aids and a few of them had
a rough idle issues afterwards down the
early batch of bad sensors or not but
it's something to look out for if you
are changing over to the gray sensor